An upper endoscopy, sometimes called an EGD,
is a procedure your doctor may perform
to examine your upper digestive tract.
Your doctor will look at the lining of your esophagus,
stomach and the beginning of your small intestine.
An upper endoscopy helps your
doctor investigate digestion problems,
diagnose diseases,
and treat some conditions in your digestive system.
To prepare for the procedure,
you will need to stop eating and drinking for
4 to 8 hours before the exam.
You may need to stop taking certain
blood thinning medicines.
Your doctor will give you instructions regarding
all your current medicines.
To begin the procedure,
you will lie down comfortably on your left side.
Your doctor may spray a solution
in your mouth to numb your throat
and give you a sedative to help you relax.
Your doctor will pass a flexible tube,
called an endoscope,
into your mouth and down your throat.
A tiny light and camera at the
end of the tube allows your doctor
to see the inside of your esophagus,
stomach and the beginning of your small intestine.
Your doctor may use air or water
passed through the endoscope
to clean or expand areas of
your digestive tract to make it easier to see.
During the procedure,
small instruments can be passed
through the endoscope to collect
tissue samples, called a biopsy,
or to remove abnormal growths,
such as a polyp.
The procedure typically lasts 15 to 30 minutes
and is usually not painful,
but you may feel some slight pressure.
After the procedure,
you will stay in a recovery room for
30 to 60 minutes while the sedative wears off.
Plan to have someone drive you home.
Your doctor will contact you with
the results of the endoscopy.